lift-ticket-regression
======================

Hedonic price model to describe the relationship between the price of the ticket and the independent variables affecting that price.

Skiing is an expensive hobby and requires a fair amount of investment for the user to actually make their way as gracefully as possible down a mountain. Not only is the gear expensive for this hobby, but lift ticket costs are a substantial investment. For example, the current price for a 1-day lift ticket at Deer Valley, has reached a staggering $97. This is no meager sum for the average American. It would only seem natural that the Ski Industry would be hurting with all the concern these days about global warming and the economy slumping in a recession. Quite the opposite has actually occurred over the past five to six years though, “Ski resorts in the United States have shown steady increases in revenue over the last five years, according to the research firm IbisWorld” and “In 2009, Ski resorts generated $2.6 billion in revenue with 57.8% of that revenue coming from lift and season ticket sale alone” (Korkki). The ski industry seems to be catering to the wealthy more than ever before, with resorts completely restructuring themselves to be more appealing to this richer clientele. This begs the question of why lift tickets are priced as they are. In other words, what does the lift ticket actually guarantee the skier or boarder. Physically, it is just a little slip of paper, but it allows access to everything the mountain has to offer. This project seeks to explain and model the characteristics of a ski resort, that can either increase or decrease the price of a ski lift ticket by either increasing or decreasing the utility of the consumer who purchased said ticket. I hope to build a hedonic price model to describe the relationship between the price of the ticket and the independent variables affecting that price. With a perfect equation, the model could be used to see the impacts of different variables on the price of the ticket, but also it could be adapted to make assumptions on what resorts might be overcharging or undercharging depending on what their lift ticket price is in relation to what they have to offer.
